Hey folks. Today's episode was
sponsored by Datadog it's. A
cloud scale monitoring and analytics
platform. Datadog was built to
bring clarity to complex dynamic
applications in the cloud on
premises in containers or wherever
they run with beautiful dashboards,
distributed, tracing, and seamless integrations.
With more than 200 technologies,
including Azure and Docker and
PagerDuty Datadog provides deep end
to end visibility into the
health and performance of modern
apps. Visualize key metrics, set
alerts to identify anomalies and
collaborate with your team to
troubleshoot and fix issues fast.
I'd like you to try
it yourself by starting a
free 14 day trial today,
listeners of this podcast, we'll
also get a free Datadog
t-shirt get started at bitly.com/data
dog shirt. That's bitly.com/datadog shirt.
. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes today. I'm
talking with sessile, Phillip. He
is the host of the
away from the keyboard podcast@awayfromthekeyboard.com
and he works on serverless
at Microsoft. How are you
sir? Doing pretty good, Scott,
how are you, bro? I'm
chilling. I'm chilling. There's no
more snow. So I'm feeling
good about that. We had
a lot of snow and
we were stuck in the
house for a week last
week, but it is all
good now. Well, actually not
last week by the time
this has aired, but last
week, by the time we
recorded it. So let me,
let me tell you a
funny story to that. So
all of my life I
had, I had never seen
snow up until January of
this year, January, 2018 lion. No.
So, so think about it.
I grew up in an
Island, so obviously there's, doesn't
snow there. And then I
live in Florida. Does it
snow here either. So the
first time I saw snow
again in January, we are
me and my family went
over to Denver and you
know, I took my son,
I have a five-year-old and
I took him skating. We
went on the Hills and
went sledding and all this
types of stuff. And when
we opened the car door,
like he runs out, he
runs over the car and
goes like face first into
the snow. And he was
like making snow angels and
he's playing around. And then
I'm kinda just like, I
don't know about the snow
stuff, man. It was a
lot of fun though. What
is that? Like? This is
totally not the topic of
this podcast, but you intellectualize
snow. You've seen a thousand
movies. You've seen people stuck
in the snow and they,
they, you know, everyone lands,
you know, there's a car,
there's a plane crash and
they all are trapped in
the snow. And then somebody
has to eat somebody else.
Like you've seen all that,
but when you're in your
thirties or whatever, and you
intellectualize, do you sit there
and like pick the snow
up and look at it
and like, look at it
close and try to register.
Or did you just like
nonchalant, just jump out of
the car? Like, yes, no
first time, but whatever, you
know, in certain animals in
the animal kingdom see something
that's foreign to their environment
and it kind of look
at it from A distance
and then they like slowly
start to edge towards it
to be like, okay, I
think this is okay. I
can play with it very
much. A lot of that.
So it's, you know, it
definitely wasn't as bad as
I thought it was going
to be. I thought I
was going to be like
frozen head to toe, but
you know, it was, it
wasn't, it wasn't bad. We
did. Okay. Interesting. Well, some,
some cultures have multiple words
for snow, you know, and
like snow in Portland is
not snow in Canada is
not snow in Maine. So
I don't know if you
were in Denver on a
mountain, maybe you got soft
powdery, snow and not mean
angry ice balls. No. Yeah,
it definitely wasn't like two,
three feet of snow or
anything like that. It was
very small, fluffy pottery type
type snow. That's awesome. My
10 year old, I just
literally last, last day yesterday
opened up the freezer to
get some ice cream. And
there was a snowball that
my 10 year old apparently
was saving in our freezer.
So when he pulls it
out and he throws it
at his brother, but you're
probably familiar with how these
laws of thermodynamics and things
go, it turned into an
ice ball. You know what
I mean? And frankly, I'm
lucky he didn't put it
right through the TV set.
So that was bad. That's
crazy. Yeah, not cool. Okay.
Enough of this, we're wasting
people's times. I wanted to
talk to you about serverless
and you know, everyone is
using it as the buzz
word first, it was microservices
and it was containers. Now
it's serverless and I've been
reading articles about it. And
a bunch of these articles
are saying serverless slash F
a S. And I know
what I as is infrastructure
as a service. And I'm
pretty sure I know what
platform as a services, but
now I feel like people
are taking serverless functions into
serverless functions as a service
implying that, that the same
thing, then there's backend as
a service. I'm very confused.
Sure. So when most people
talk about serverless, kind of
like what you said, they,
they assume that we're talking
about functions as a service,
which is which pretty much
just means that, Hey, I'm
going to write some code.
I'm going to give it
to somebody, they going to
run it for me. And
I don't have to think
about anything else that's happening
in the background. Right. And
from, from a, from a
high perspective, that's, that's really
what serverless does for you,
right? Like it allows you
to build these applications without
having to worry about servers,
without having to worry about,
you know, machine updates or
anything of that nature. Now,
when we talk about FAS
or FAS, what we're talking
about is serverless compute, right?
So again, I'm going to
run my Python script. I'm
going to run my, you
know, Java, like whatever type
of app that I'm building,
I'm going to send it
over to AWS. I'm gonna
send it to Google cloud.
You know, whoever's actually running
that code for me and
they're just going to run
it. Now, some of the
other things that we get
inside of serverless is also,
we also have serverless databases,
for instance. So let's say
you're talking about something like
cosmos DB or even dynamo
DB, because at the end
of the day, like whenever
I provisioned this database, right,
the only thing that I'm
going to say is, Hey,
just create this thing for
me. I don't care where
it lives very much don't
care. You know how big
it is, you know, the
scale just kind of expand
for me as I needed
to be, but I just
want you to create something
that I'll just use. And
that's pretty much just how
it goes. Hmm. It seems
like there's a major shift
in the industry right now
where we are simultaneously excited
about serverless and backend as
a service. Yeah. But then
with the rise of Kubernetes,
you see Kubernetes people and
smart people online talking about,
you know, internals of processes
and how they fork and
Linux. And so it's like,
while we are in the
growing pains of serverless, we're
all running H top, which
seems ironic. Right. So when
we talk about Coobernetti's Colin's
is a little bit different,
right? Because so Kubernetes itself
is what we call an
orchestrator, right. And in the
world of, of Docker containers.
So Kubernetes will take your
Docker container or your Docker
image, and it'll orchestrate it
in a way that you
say, Hey, I want to
have like five of these
things, or I want to
have four of these things.
Right. And it'll just kind
of make sure that environment
is, is in the desired
States, right. This kind of
what we call this things
like desired state configuration, it's
in the desired state that
you needed to be in.
Now, this is a little
bit different from the serverless
pieces, right? Because again, with
serverless, I don't, I don't
think about anything other than
writing code and sending it
off, you know, somewhere for
it to be run. Right.
I don't really care too
much about the region. And
I don't care very much
about like where, how it's
being run, but I do
care that someone is managing
like that infrastructure for me.
When we talk about Kubernetes
now, like even though it's
kind of doing some of
that orchestration for our containers
for us, we still have
to manage that. Right. Like
we still have to provision
servers. We still have to
provision memory and Ram like
demand the right amount of
resources. That's going to be
able to run that for
us. So, so even though
it does make things a
little bit easier from a
orchestration perspective and again, managing
multiples of these multiples of
these container images, like we
still have to think about,
and again, depending on what
you're doing and the panel,
depending on the type of
app that you're building, that
might be something that you
might want to have, like
that might be like your
right level of abstraction for
serverless people. It's more, Hey,
I got a really cool
idea, but I don't want
to spend, like, I don't
know, an hour or two
hours setting up machines and
picking skews or anything like
that. Like I just want
to like, let me just
write this code really quickly
and then just put it
out there. Right. And so
what you get with serverless
again, is this, this, this
faster time to market where
I'm kind of just saying,
Hey, here's some code, just
run it from me. No,
no. On top of that,
we do get some additional
features from serverless, right? So
we also get like the
per second billing, which is,
you know, a big thing
for a lot of folks.
So when we talk about,
again, like running VMs or
platform as a service offerings
in the cloud, like regardless
of whether you're these things
or not, like you still
have to pay for them.
So I get, I go
up and I split up
like something on Heroku or
on, you know, elastic, Beanstalk
on AWS, regardless of whether
I publish the app or
not, whether somebody is actually
using it or not, I'm
going to get continuously charged,
whatever it is that my
fee is per month with
serverless. Now we only get
billed per usage, you know,
whether that's permitted or per
second, based on, you know,
whoever your host happens to
be. But, but now I
only have to worry about
computes or these resources, like
as a utility. So let's
say, you know, imagine it's
like your electric bill, right?
Like if you don't use
so much electricity, then you're
only going to be built
so much. Right. So it's
a very dynamic way of,
of kind of managing those
resources. It seems like a
lot of people though are
doing things like running serverless
things on Kubernetes. So they
want to simultaneously think about
things at the low level,
but also provide a service
to their customers with their
customers might be other people
in the same company. You
know what I mean? So
it's like they use, they
use Kubernetes for its orchestration
and for its management and
for its auto scale. And
then they'll run a serverless
runtime on top of it.
So they kind of get
the best of both worlds.
They effectively use their infrastructure
better. They have full and
complete control down to the,
you know, the smallest text
file, but then they're their
customer. Like if I was
your customer and we work
at the same company, doesn't
have to think about it.
And that's a, that's a
use case or usage scenario
that we see a lot
of folks doing. So again,
I, as a developer, like
I just want to be
able to publish code really
quickly and try it out,
like in a, in an
environment where I don't have
to think too much about,
and I'm setting up a
patchy or I'm setting up
engine X or IAS, just
to kind of run these
things, particularly when you're in
the early stages. And you're
doing like PLCs when you're
doing like, you just want
to prototype really quick ideas,
you know, I just want
to write this code, push
it out and let me
see what's actually happening. And
so from a developer perspective,
from a productivity perspective, like
your, your productivity goes up
so much higher because you're
not worried about some of
these additional concerns. Obviously if
it's inside of your company,
like your dev ops folks
or your infrastructure folks are
gonna have to be managing
that for you. But even
from that perspective, now, again,
your productivity is so much
higher as a developer because
that, that development model just
allows you to iterate that
much faster. Right. Right. No,
I mean the whole, the
whole point is to put
the person's business, get, get
the person's business problem solved
so that, you know, random
line developer isn't, you know,
FTP and stuff, or thinking
about production and thinking about
dev ops, right. The goal
is check code in, have
code run in scale. Right.
Without having to think about
anything, like basically freeing my,
my, my mental cycles. Exactly.
And you actually remember when
I first heard about this
quote unquote cloud thing, right.
And when that first came
out, this is exactly what
I thought it was going
to be. I thought it
was going to be, Hey,
I'm just going to have
some application and I'm going
to send it somewhere and
it's going to run and
I'm going to get a
bill at the end of
the month. It's going to
be like, Oh, okay, you
use this much, this space.
And you use this much
bandwidth, you know, like again,
the, your software being built
as a utility versus like
some static resource, like a
virtual machine or, or something
of that nature. And so
it's kind of good to
see that we, we have
this stuff now and, you
know, I think going forward,
we're going to see that
just kind of continue to
improve with more and more
features The functions as a
service, being able to take
like a, do it written
in any language and then
scale. It is interesting. But
then I also think, see
backend as a service BAS
where it's like, you know,
like I know that Azure
had one of those and
Firebase is one of those,
right. Where it's like more
than serverless. It's really like
almost software as a service,
but it's like, I want
a rest API to handles
everything from my mobile app.
Yeah. We definitely see a
lot of that inside of
the mobile space. Right. So
can you talk about Firebase
for instance? So Firebase today,
I believe you can actually
execute serverless functions again, so
you could write some code
and you could send it
to Firebase and they'll run
it. But again, on top
of that, you get the
authentication, you get the ties
into Google drive and you
get, again, mobile notifications, you
get tons of, and obviously
you get the database storage
to their realtime database. So
you almost get like, it's
like this package deal. You
know, it's like, Hey, give
me some of the, the,
the base, the basic things
that I need for an
application, regardless of whether it's
desktop mobile or whatever the
case is, here's some basic
things that I need, let's
package it up and kind
of give it to you
as, you know, as a
service and you get billed
for it every month, you
know, you get billed for
usage or how much bandwidth
you use, but now your,
your developers, your company, you
don't need to worry about,
you know, how do I
set up this Facebook app
and, you know, set up
these off keys or, you
know, how do I, how
do I authenticate with Slack
to send it, you know,
to set up messages, all
you have to do is
just say, okay, Hey, give
me this thing, right? And
I'm going to call your
API APIs. And then, you
know, depending on how much
ever work that I do,
or how much ever, how
many ever requests that I
send every month, that's what
you're going to build me
for. But now me as
a, let's say I'm a
health company, or I'm working
on insurance or marketing or
whatever the case is. I
could focus on just doing
whatever it is that my
business is good at. And
I don't have to worry
about like, well, I'd have
to worry as much about
security or displace or any
of these types of things.
Right. I could just go
out and get to work,
Which I think I know
I brought up Kubernetes and
you set me straight about
like, what that does versus
what like traditional serverless means.
But when you look at
a system, a large system
that used a lot of
different services as a serverless
architecture, you know, you got
your, your, but it's gonna
end up calling an authentication
service and some API gateway.
And then an number of
functions, the functions are at
one functions as a service
place, the authentication service might
be Azure or Amazon or
a zero. The database might
be cosmos or Mongo in
the cloud. Another database might
be somewhere else. Suddenly I've
outsourced my things either to
one vendor or a dozen,
any one of which could
potentially go down, which then
gets me thinking back to
orchestrators, like, like surface fabric
and Kubernetes, where I could
still do that exact same
architecture. I could still pretend
that there are no computers,
but, but ultimately if I
needed to, I could get
to them by, you know,
I could get into the
dashboard if I needed to.
Yeah, exactly. And essentially what
we're talking about now is,
again, I have these different
slots of functionality that are
kind of spread around the
place. How do I compose
them together to create whatever
my solution is? And that's
kinda when we start talking
about like microservices and things
of that nature, right? And
again, microservices from a, from
a very high level definition,
just being very specific units
of functionality that are been
separated, but now I can
kind of bring them together
to make, I don't know,
whatever my solution happens to
be at this particular point
in time. And so what
you see is it's very
easy for us to kind
of bring all of these
concepts together, right? So, so
I could create a serverless
application and then kind of
create it in a, in
a Vera microservice type type
manner. Right. Because I might
have different functions that have
different concerns. I might have
one that's concerned for logging.
I may have one that's
concerned for sending email or
sending test messages by some
third party service. And what
I can do in the
front end of that in
front of my functions as
a service, I can have
something like, like an API
gateway or API proxy or
something of that nature so
that it can have the
kind of it kind of
groups together that functionality a
little bit. So I don't
have to worry about kicking
off to so many different
end points. I could kind
of look at one URL,
one location, and then in
the background, like he kind
of fork off to, you
know, I need to go
to the service over here
or the service over here,
that service over there. But
from, from my application's perspective,
I'm just going to one
place. Yeah. In like, traditionally,
if you had like a
shopping cart service and you
add something to the shopping
cart, you know, the UI
calls, the business logic calls
the service, et cetera, et
cetera. But with, with these
more, these more distributed applications,
it's like, you almost have
DNS and load balancing at
every possible level. So every
single caller is sitting in
front of a load balancer
and every single thing that
can get called can potentially
scale independently. No, exactly. And
again, that's another good thing
about building in a serverless
model is that I don't
have to worry about the
load balancing of some of
these types of things, because
the platform should be able
to scale for me dynamically.
Right. Cause again, I'm not
managing the server, right? Like
my holster, my provider, whoever
they happen to be, they're
managing that for me. So
whenever my load goes up,
like they should be able
to detect that increase in
traffic and say, Oh, okay,
well sessile needs like five
more machines or two more
machines. Or, you know, I
can say, Hey, you know,
this is after Christmas, you
know, the big shopping season
has done. We provision the
service room before we can
kind of take them down.
Cause he's not really using
this much compute power, Which
is really interesting. So if
you could give a little
historical context to something that
I experienced, I used to
work@acompanycalledeighthundred.com. This is back when
you could actually buy a
three-letter domain. And it eventually
got bought by best buy.
And to kind of, this
is pre-Amazon right, right. And
eight hundred.com did this crazy
thing. You can actually go
and search for it. It
was a three DVDs for
a dollar. This is right
when DVDs were coming out
and DVDs were expensive. And
we wanted to like IX,
you know, surprise everyone as
you know, what was going
to become black Friday started.
So we said three DVDs
for a buck and it
completely changed the way our
site scaled because we went
from everyone basically browsing and
running around our read only
part of our site to
everyone's strike, trying to put
stuff in their shopping cart,
which is the right part
of our site. And though
we ended up basically making
subdomains for images dot eight
hundred.com and shopping cart.com. And
I didn't, we didn't actually,
we didn't know we were
doing it at the time,
but it's this kind of
classic problem where we, we
solved it with commodity load
balancing. It's just that the
load balancing was seen by
the user because they saw,
you know, shopping cart dot,
whatever.com. And then we had
a shopping cart farm that
was independent, you know, from
the, the images farm and
the product catalog farm, but
we did it all manually.
So we did exactly what
you just described, but we
still ended up doing it
kind of on our own.
When you, when you really
think about the time, the
effort, the research, you know,
the, the trial and errors
that you had to go
through to do that all
of that can kind of
be almost lessened or even
completely go away. If you're
just like, okay, here's my
code. Just run this for
me. Let me know when
it's done and I can
get my response back. Right.
Right. It's almost like the
best practices of, you know,
our, our, our grandmothers and
fathers is now a checkbox.
Right. We've got distracted away.
All of the best practices.
I like to joke that
like the second page of
my resume is now completely
just the check box you're
in a cloud somewhere. Yeah.
A lot of that operational
type of work has really
just been automated based on,
you know, some of the
things that we're doing today
inside of the cloud. I
also hear serverless and functions
being compared to what are
called 12 factor. And I'll
put a link to the
concept of 12 factor applications.
But these are basically, you
know, all of the best
practices. It's 12 factors that
describe best practices, like, you
know, one code base and
lots of deploys and your
dependencies are isolated, et cetera.
But Adrian cock Croft, who
is a, used to be
the joint, one of the
chief architects at Netflix talks
about how quickly you can
bring up your app. Like
if you can bring it
up in milliseconds, the entire
application and then throw it
away, then he says, you
can call it serverless, which
I thought was a very
bold statement. And I'm not
sure I necessarily agree with
that. So, so when we
talk about again, like just
being able to push your
code and, and let's say
you want to prototype an
idea, like you want to
do that really quickly. Right.
Alright. So again, think about,
think about what it used
to take when, you know,
you're working at your first
job or, you know, one
of your first companies and
Hey, I need a server
to go run this code.
I remember for me, that
used to take me like
two weeks, right. Physically buy
it, you have to physically
buy it. Or, you know,
I had to wait for
an admin to provision like
a virtual machine or something
of that nature. There's, there's
a lot of time that
has to go by, right.
Because again, you're, you're controlling
this infrastructure, right. So you
have to create it, provision
it, plug it in, install,
whatever updates, plug it into
the network. And so, so
all this time is kind
of just going on and
kind of moving forward for
you when we talk about
doing that stuff in the
cloud, right? Like the automation
is there and it's a
lot faster, but again, like
anytime that you're doing something
like pass, for instance, when
you're, when you're low goes
up, like you still have
to provision another VM. Right.
You're not doing it, but
like the framework is still
doing it for you. And
so obviously with that, like
there's a time to, you
know, for that provision to
be complete, you know what
I mean? And so within
that time, you're still getting
load. You're still getting requests
coming in. People are still
visiting your application until, okay,
this the server's on and
it's hot now. It's like,
okay, I could, you know,
fork off some of my
requests. You there go over
to that machine. And so
what do you see with
the serverless environment? What, one
of the ways that we
kind of, and we, as
in like the industry kind
of, kind of resolve this
is kind of just having
like a pool of servers
that are already available for
you. So when you send
your requests over and you
need to quickly, you know,
Hey, I need to give
Scott like five more machines,
typically, like there's a pool
that I could just reach
into that pool and grab
out, you know, two, three
machines, five machines, whatever the
case is. And so now
you don't have to wait
as long for that to
happen. Right. And so that's
kind of how you get
that dynamic scale a little
bit, right? Like there's these
pre-provisioned environments and, you know,
they might have, you know,
whatever they need to have
install them, them, all that
needs to happen now is
that your application just gets
copied over there, installed on
the run side. And now,
you know, these requests could
start forking off to these
different places that you know,
that the latency or the
time to, I guess the
time to scale kind of
helps gets reduced a little
bit when we're talking about
like building in the serverless
environment. An interesting point that
was also made was if
you are providing this as
a service, or if you
are using a cloud that
provides this kind of stuff
as a service, the T
the argument would be the
time that it takes to
spin up these things or
get your container or your
function or your whatever set
up and running should not,
you shouldn't be charged for
that. You should only charge
for the time that your
function executes. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.
So again, depending on who
your provider is, like, they'll
usually have like per second
billing or per minute billing,
and again, it's the utility,
right? So the more you
use, the more you pay,
the less you use, the
less you pay, Right? Yeah.
The idea that the outer
loop of the setup and
the getting the, getting the
thing ready to go is
free and the Interloop wouldn't
would be what you pay
for. It would be pretty
cool. So then it's like,
you start paying for CPU
cycles. Yeah. That's, that's pretty
much CPU cycles, memory bandwidth.
So if we use the
example of  on Amazon,
that's, that's a pretty common
service. A lot of people
use, I just want to
say, okay, store these files
for me, right. I'm going
to create a bucket, right.
A container for me to
store this information in, and
I'm going to just give
you some stuff to store.
Now, if I create this
bucket and I don't put
anything in there, then I'm
not gonna get charged for
it. Right. Because the bucket's
there, but I'm not actually
using it to do anything
when I started using it
to do so I start
taking up space or using
bandwidth or anything of that
sort. That's when the billing
starts, right. So how much
space am I taking up?
How often am I accessing
it? You know, how often
am I making requests here?
And then you will build
accordingly for the usage, but
not the provisioning of the
research. Well, and even better,
if you could hide as
much of the billing and
the mint as possible, like
you're listing out the stuff
that one could potentially bill,
it'd be nice. It'd be
nice. If you could remove
as many of those things
as possible. Like I'm thinking
of like Azure container service,
which the management VMs, the
cluster management, do, you don't
pay for that. Right. So
you do pay for the
VMs that your things, your
containers are running on. So
that's on you and you
pay for those as kind
of as virtual machines. But
if you could hide the
management and if you could
hide as much of the
bandwidth as possible, if you
could hide as much of
the storage as possible, That'd
be cool. Yeah. And they
actually do a spray, similar
thing with the Azure container
service, the Azure community service.
Like again, they just, the
management stuff you'd have to
worry about. All I need
to worry about is, Hey,
let me push this, push
this image. Right. And then
they'll worry about provisioning some
of that stuff for you.
So that works out really
good. Yeah. So do you
think that a year from
now two years now, there
will be a generation of
people who don't think about
Kubernetes. They don't think about
VMs. They just check a
box or pull a slider
bar and their code shows
up somewhere. And then there's
the dev ops. People are
the only ones that know
or understand. So I've definitely
spoken to a few companies
that they're like a hundred
percent serverless. So I, for
instance, I know that's a
few, what do you call
them? Video hosting websites. Right.
So they do like educational
learning through, you know, hosted
video and things of that
nature. And a lot of
them are completely serverless now.
So again, they, they, you
know, they have servers storage,
so to speak, right? Their
applications are built on serverless
APIs and then their front
ends are just, you know,
thick JavaScript clients that are
calling these serverless APIs in
the background. So again, no
servers, no, you know, machines
to worry about no VM
updates. And, and that's essentially
how they run and it
works great for them because
now they, they, they, again,
they only pay for what
they use. Right. So, you
know, I don't have to
be okay, this is going
to be a very heavy,
you know, sales season for
me. I have to, you
know, expand and buy additional
servers, like the platforms automatically
scales up and scales down.
And that works really well
for them from a cost
perspective. Hm. And do you,
do you see this taking
over like the all of
computing? Cause I feel like
when I teach people, when
I teach people software and
I assume you do the
same, I either start at
functions or I start at
websites and then I try
to find a website that
I can throw up as
quickly as possible so that
people feel, you know, happy
and comfortable, which is usually
platform as a service. Do
you think that that will
be hidden from, you know,
new learners entirely? I don't
think so. I think, you
know, kind of like computing
in general, this is the
kind of way that I
look at it is we
all operate at a different
level of abstraction, right. And
as you're building out your
solution, you have to find
out the level of abstraction
that makes sense for you.
We still have tons of
people that are running virtual
machines. Right. And that, that
makes sense for them, right.
Because they need to have
that level of, of control
over their environment. Then you
have, again, the platform as
a service type offering where,
well, I don't really worry
about the VM in terms
of managing it, but I
do say, Hey, I want
it to be this big
and this fast, right? Like
I want this much Ram
and I want this much
CPU and I want it
to scale based on some
predefined rules that you set
up. But at the end
of the day, like that's
that level of obstruction works
for them. Right. So several
of us knows like a
higher level of abstraction. This
is the level of abstraction
where we just say, here's
the code, let me know
how much money I have
for you, because I don't
really care about worrying about
some of these other things.
Is it, is it their
comfort level though? Or is
it like, are people picking
VMs? Cause they are comfortable
with it or to using
it. They actually have a
business reason care about the
VM. And I think there's
a little bit of both.
Right? So for some people
definitely do have a business
reason for that, right. Because
you know, again, depending on
the type of industry you're
in, you might have certain
requirements, particularly when it comes
to compliance and things of
that nature that, you know,
you need to have some
level of like a deeper
level of control again. And
when we talk about auditing
and things of that nature,
like you might need to
do that, but also too,
from a comfort level, when
you think about onboarding your
developers and getting people into
the cloud really quickly, you
mentioned you have a new
developer that starts today and
you say, Hey, could you,
I will need you to
go look at this API
it's serverless and it's running,
you know, it's running in
the cloud, I need you
to update this code. Well,
you know what they could
do, they could go, they
could check out the code,
they can update it and
they could push it. And
then, you know, probably in
a couple of seconds they
can actually see like the
results of that change, like
in a real environment. Right,
exactly. Right. Right. Versus being
like, okay, I need to
set up this virtual machine
locally on my laptop. I'd
have to get all the
settings. Right. The configurations. Right.
I gotta get the right
dependencies and DLLs installed and
all this types of stuff.
And then I still may
not even get it right.
Because I got to, you
know, there's a lot of,
there's a lot of tweaking
and changing that needs to
happen. At least with serverless,
you have a little bit
more of a consistent environment.
Right. So when we talk
about time to change, where
we talk about the increase
in level of productivity, that
for you might be like
an acceptable level of abstraction
to be at for those
particular games. Nice. So you,
as I said before, are
the host of a way
from the keyboard to podcast?
Is it a tech podcast
or is it a, is
a people podcast? It's a
little bit of both. Right.
So at the show, what
we do is we talk
to mainly different folks in
the technology industry, but we
talked to them about not
technology, right? So again, if
you're, if you work on
company XYZ and you're into
this compiler of that programming
language, that's great. Kudos to
you. We don't really want
to talk about that. Well,
we do want to talk
about is, you know, what
are you actually doing? You
know, like what really motivates
you? What really pushes you?
Like what are the things
that really get you going
as an individual? And I
think those are important stories
to tell, because now you
can kind of get to
see, you know, what's the
journey this person kind of
took to, to be where
they are today. Like, what
are some of the, the
hurdles they had to cross
or, you know, what are
some of the things that
they do to kind of
distress when they're not working?
And now you get to
see, let's say Scott, right?
Like we get to see
Scott as a person. Right.
We get to see sessile
as a person and not
just, you know, somebody on
YouTube or a name in
a book that you happen
to pick up in the
bookstore. Great. Cool. Well thank
you for coming on my
podcast and we'll be sure
to check out yours. Thank
you so much. God, you've
been a pleasure. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week. .